but nothing goes to waste the death of a
hippo provides a meal for the rivers
most fearsome and efficient predators
the Nile crocodile
growing up to five meters in length
these crocodiles hunt and scavenge
as a little crooks
a hippo carcass just down the river from
the studio is instantly set upon by
these voracious reptiles
this is by the hundred meters in front
of us
a classic Luangwa see embedded Depot in
the water and about 30 crocodiles
what's amazing is that there are two
three hippos that are coming in and
actually trying to force the crocodile
off the carcass obviously mum would be
one of them
there seems to be a whole gang of
they're trying to force the crops off
for Lake Taylor sleeve speeches so it's
pretty crime evil holy hippos and
crocodiles normally coexist peacefully
the Crocs will take every opportunity to
prey on a weak animal or scavenge a dead
one we seen one or two of these hippos
doing these big warning displays which
is really a threat to the crocodiles
they're trying to drive the crocodiles
off with this big yawn and you know
sharp teeth remember the Crocs obviously
not intimidated by that at all and the
crops are here in numbers so that you
know the hippos have got no chance
really of driving
Allisyn Leslie is one of the foremost
authorities on Nile crocodiles she
explains to one of the film crew the
unique manner in which the Crocs feed if
it's a bony chunk that will literally
just crush 2,000 pounds per square inch
they were just crushing until it's you
know in a sort of a soft enough
condition that they can just swallow and
if it's a chunk of say for example skin
or innards they just pull him out he's
shaking shaking shaking tails from
literally slides down their throat
there's some sort of hierarchy there
that we rely on each other to actually
grab onto either end of a piece of prey
and in there rotating opposite direction
so although to us it looks like this mad
frenzy and splashing and going on
there's actually a really controlled
sort of system in place they're amazing
yourself everybody's concentrated in
areas the hippos are dying off you know
slowly but surely and these cleaning
machines have come in just to you know
keep the system freshened up
crocodiles are opportunists
they feed on fish in the river and at
this time of year we'll make the most of
any dying or dead hippos but they will
also take advantage of any animal coming
to the river to drink
with that sort of number of crocks in an
area obviously if there's an Impala on
the bank there's gonna be a number of
crocks going for that animal if we don't
get rain I think there's going to be a
bit of an uproar in some of these areas
so for the thirsty animals this
croc-infested River is as dangerous as
it is necessary
you